We're getting started with visual effects. Let's start by creating a folder
at the root of our project. Let's call it VFX: visual effects. We will consider the effects from a programming
point of view. A detailed study of Niagara is not included in the course. UE
currently has two special effects editors: the first is an outdated one called Cascade and a new one that has
appeared quite recently. It's called Niagara. First, let's take a look at how to create
a particle system using Cascade. In the content browser, right-
click and select ParticleSystem from the menu. Let's call this asset PS_Test.
We click twice. We open. This subsystem is called Cascade in the UE.
On the left we have a viewport where the particle system is displayed. On the right are the emitters, which are essentially
presets for the particle system. The settings are grouped by category, if we select
spawn in the details panel, the settings for how a given particle system appears in the world will open, for example,
we can adjust the number of particles that will appear each frame. We can change the
parameters of lifetime - the lifetime of the particles. Set the upper border to 10 and in the viewport
we observe how the particle system changes depending on the settings. Also, if we right-click
on the emitter, we can add other parameters that are available in the proposed lists, for example,
in the location category, you can select a cylinder. Our particles will be spawned randomly in the cylinder.
We can adjust its radius, make it bigger. Thus, by adjusting
various parameters, we get the desired particle system if we right-
click on an empty area , then we can add another emitter and configure it in a different way.
This way we can combine several particle systems. Let's change the material
for the second particle system, in the required category . We save the asset. We take out the particle system onto the stage. Let's see how it looks.
Also, of course, the particle system can be spawned from C ++ code.
Our particle test system consists of 2 emitters. One is cylindrical and the other is standard with our
red material. Cascade, I think, will be supported in UE for a long time, because a
lot of special effects are made on Cascade, and Niagara has appeared quite recently.
Let's open the effects folder in ExternalContent. I added special effects from the shooter game. We can also click on the filters button.
Select ParticleSystem from the menu. All content in folders will be filtered by ParticleSystem type.
We can open, see what special effects are in the shooter game. We can open the explosion from the launcher grenade.
In fact, we have a set of tuned emitters that together create this explosion.
If we click on the S button, which means solo, we can see what a separate emitter looks like.
We have smoke, we have a flash, and so on. We will adapt these effects for Niagara a little later
, but now let's see how to create a basic effect using this editor.
Go to the vfx folder. Right-click. We find the fx category, this category contains
all the assets that Niagara has. We will be looking at the Niagara Emmiter and the Niagara System.
Choose Niagara Emmiter from the menu. A special helper window opens, which offers
to choose how we want to create our new emitter. Let's create our first emitter from a template. We select the first
category and in the list at the very end there is an emitter called Upward Mesh Burst.
We select it. Click on the finish button. We name our new asset NE_BaseImpact.
We'll start the next lesson with the impact effects that appear when a bullet hits a surface.
We open our emitter. Niagara editor looks much more functional than Cascade. There is a viewport on the left.
In the middle there are also settings for various parameters of the particle systems. There is a timeline at the bottom, which can also be edited.
Let's change some parameters. Selecting Spawn Burst. Set the Spawn Count to 10.
Reduce the number of particles that spawn at one time and in the Initial Particle you can adjust the color of the particles.
Let's put some kind of red. Click the apply, save button.
The emitter we just created cannot be pulled onto the stage. He is not an actor. Cascade emitters are in one asset,
and in Niagara, in essence, separation is done, that is, each emitter is a separate asset.
By combining emitter assets, we create a Niagara system that can already be spawned on stage.
And thus, we can use one emitter in several Niagara systems. Select Niagara System from the context menu.
The assistant window opens. You can create a system from the available emitters.
You can also create a system from available templates. You can see for yourself how they look.
Let's create an empty Niagara system. Click finish. We call our system NS_BaseImpact.
We click twice. The editor looks almost the same as for a single emitter,
but here with the right mouse button we can add emitters directly. We add our NE_BaseImpact
and, thus, our Niagara system now consists of one emitter. We can also
override various properties of our emitter in the Niagara system, for example, we are completely satisfied with
how the particle system moves, and we would like to change the color of this system.
The particle system can already be thrown onto the stage, created automatically by Niagara Actor.
And in the next lesson we will spawn the Niagara system using C ++